how to build a B2B startup marketing
engine from
[Music]
scratch welcome back to a fresh episode
of Breaking
bb.com I'm your host Sam Dunning and if
you want to join thousands of Legends
enjoying past podcast episodes to check
out our daily email B2B marketing
newsletter TI or to apply to work with
us head over to Breaking bb.com so we're
diving into the importance of marketing
when it comes to your B2B startup how to
build up that marketing engine from
scratch how to work with limited
resources to drive Pipeline and revenue
and take on giant competitors I've got
Rachel Merritt the director of product
over at World spark Rachel welcome to
the show how you doing hi hey everyone
thank you for having me excited to be
here
big podcast F so yeah yeah excited to
have you on so as we always do Rachel
we're diving straight into the topic at
hand so I know you've got hands-on
experience World spark and other
startups that you've worked at and of
building up that marketing machine from
the ground up so getting to Back to
Basics what is the importance of of
marketing when it comes to B2B
especially at startup
companies wow yeah I think you know
the startups that I've worked at were
always sales driven first which I think
is great um and really just built out
the bare minimum marketing elements that
they needed whether they tried to do
them themselves and figure them out or
outsourced a segment of the work to a
branding agency or a marketing agency
before they really laid a sales process
in foundation and then brought on
someone to build out the marketing team
so um yeah I've been doing startup
marketing for about six years now and
then prior to that I did nonprofit
marketing which is very similar um you
have you're asked to do a whole lot with
very little and most people that usually
bought into this greater cause or
Mission like you find often to with
startups so I've always had to do a lot
with a little but um yeah I mean so in
building out I've been very fortunate
though that in the startups and they've
always been B2B Tech startups that I've
worked for um they were organizations
that they had salespeople who were
really boots on the ground right they
didn't okay they didn't have any
expectation that there would be massive
a massive influx of inbound from day one
but they picked up the phone they cold
called they were grind in as we say at
wildpark um and really built a great
core audience
and then marketing can just come and add
fuel to the fire so um yeah it's it's
been a wild ride just learning how to do
a lot with a little but I don't think I
would have it any other way right like
if I had gone and started my career off
at super large well funded organizations
I probably wouldn't have learned how to
be a scrappy or you know yeah yeah yeah
I love it I'm I'm much the same like I
don't think I've ever been at a large
scale organization where I've been given
or handed a a massive budget to manage
I'm much the same coming from generally
small businesses and having to like like
you mentioned there get Scrappy get
creative think outside the box work with
very little and almost do as much as you
can with either a limited budget limited
outside resource or right doing as much
as you can internally with yourself or
your own team so love that way of
looking at things how is it when um did
you say most of the companies that
you've been with have had a sales team
already and then marketing's come on
board later
what is what's that like is there like
much resistance from the sales team are
they are usually welcomed with open arms
or what's that like yeah so I also feel
very fortunate that I I see like so many
marketing memes and sales memes and
jokes and things like that on LinkedIn
that make me laugh and certainly there
have been moments where like a an acute
situation has created a little bit of
tension between sales and marketing and
who takes the lead and those types of
things but um really fortunate that like
both of the startups I've worked for
have been under really strong leadership
they've hired well they've hired to
character and so yeah I haven't really
experienced a ton of that like I
somebody the other day he's a big
influencer on LinkedIn he's like oh I
got invited to a marketing conference in
marketing hate sales I was like what um
so I think we get a little bit of a bad
rap and probably at some bigger
companies that happens but yeah no I
think they were all I think both
companies that I've been at too they
were always at a point where they're
like hey we're exhausting all of our
resources without outbound and it's time
and so I was welcomed with open arms and
um I think the thing that
I was able to drive with them was like
let's be courageous right like let's
what do we have to lose to like let's go
after our competitors and really show
how we're better value you know and how
we solve their problem or how they
create problems for them that our
platform doesn't create right and so um
so all of my experience with sales has
been a great relationship I learn a lot
from them um the first startup that I
worked for I was really just working
with one individual and he was just
bought in a wonderful human being and
then the next next one it's just a group
of people who like have exhausted all
their resources but they're still hungry
um and that is an element of working for
a startup too that I think is important
like having people people on the team
who are hungry and who will hustle like
at Wild that is a big part of who we
hire right like we want somebody who's a
great culture fit um in terms of their
character and that is bought in on the
mission you know because our mission is
to build multiplying movements of
multiplying leaders which is essentially
just means leaders who build more
leaders like leaders who serve the
people they lead knowing it's not about
them it's about the people right so um I
have been fortunate in that regard but I
don't know I would say that both times I
think I just came in the first 90 days
with a willingness to learn okay just a
level of humility and eagerness to learn
from them and have a posture of how can
I help versus like coming in and burning
everything to the ground and acting like
you know I think if you take a posture
of I'm the expert here uh that's
probably where that tension between
sales and marketing happens but I think
at times sometimes that stuff exists in
the culture to begin with and you can't
overcome it but haven't had deal with
that yet so just really a posture of how
can I help um and how can I take what
you're doing and elevate it um into
supplement what you're already doing
yeah I like it I like it so when you
came on board as one of the first
marketing hires if not the first was
there much pressure put on yourself like
were you given kind of certain targets
or what did that look like interested
today yeah um you know I actually think
that
the first time I I did a really good job
of like collaborating with sales to even
try and set a Target right because
sometimes with a startup you just don't
know like there have been companies I've
talked to maybe I was considering for
like part of my tech tax Tech stack or
something and they've asked me like oh
how many inbounds do you get per week or
per month and like you know there have
been times when it's been all over the
board right so to be able to just sit
down with sales and come up with some
like goals with them um has always been
the approach um for me and I will say
yeah absolutely I
mean you don't want to wander aimlessly
right and so looking at previous inbound
activity um looking at like previous
things that agencies have done and how
that that drastically changed I think
too with some of the iOS privacy changes
that came out and how that affected
retargeting and certain types of digital
marketing right like there were times s
where we just sort of set a moving
Target and really tried to run hard
after it but um I will say I did it one
time with an organization that didn't
have like Salesforce and a lot of sales
enablement tools or data and it was much
much harder to set measurable goals
whereas where I'm at now it's like we
have our we have a sales team that
really is very metrics driven and that
has been a huge help so I would say like
if you're going at it I know sometimes
like really expensive tools like
Salesforce or HubSpot right like they
just don't make sense sometimes but to
be able to even just have a modest text
stack and see what people are doing on
your website and to be able to just be
able to go back into Salesforce and
research a lot of like closed loss deals
closed One deals and pull that data
create audiences and things like that
like that was probably the first
foundational Game Changer and being able
being able to even think about okay
these are the goals that we're going to
set for marketing so yeah but absolutely
there were there were always pretty
aggressive goals uh Revenue goals lead
genen goals um and that is to me I think
more helpful than in the past I think
where it was just like hey just do the
best you can you know yeah yeah yeah so
we're getting tactical so let's get into
a bit of a a strategy session for
everyone watching tuning in what are
what do you believe are the priorities
so let's say we've literally just come
into this organization we we quite
literally are the first marketing hire
you mentioned some points there in
regards to kind of chatting to the sales
team understanding the metrics they care
about you mentioned you touched a bit on
CRM is that the very first point of Port
of Call that you believe that we should
be doing in the first few days or is
there a step kind of zero that we should
take before any of that even takes
place yeah I think that there are two
steps that you should be taking at the
same time in tandem one I definitely
think building internal trust and
relationship with with the seite the
sales team right um that's huge and that
should be happening relationally I think
and a win that you get in your first 30
days um but then while you're doing that
the most game-changing thing I thing I
think is to know the ins and outs of
your product
um and I I remember when I was first
working for a B2B Tech startup and I was
trying to build the marketing Engine
with just a very surface level
understanding of all the different
processes in the
software um and I was I was really
struggling uh and one night I just said
okay and let me also say this there are
some tech companies out there where
their software is not super complex it's
pretty straightforward but the
organization that I worked for their
platform was a Powerhouse it took like
over a hundred different processes that
were previously done by paper in an
extremely archaic way and brought it all
together under
one machine and um a lot of SAS
platforms and their marketing they say
Allin one and you know I mean we joke
about all of the different phrases that
we use yeah to Market software products
but it really it really covered over
like a hundred processes that an average
Department would have to all do in
separate ways manually right and
so the my marketing really started to
take off and get set on fire when I
became a student of the product and I
really
understood the user experience how they
were approaching like what problem they
were trying to solve by coming and doing
this in the software so you know there's
so much out there for marketers about
what to do in your first 90 days right
um you know be a student of your
audience as much as you can learn as
much as you can about your ICP and
surveys and feedback and interviews and
all of that stuff and I completely 100%
agree but if you're working for a tech
company I think it's equally important
to just saturate yourself and the
product and know it in and out because I
think once you get a really strong
understanding of all the different
workflows in your product and then you
marry that with all of the market
research you're doing about your ICP and
you know the different problems that you
solve then it's almost like when you sit
down to do any marketing activities or
collateral I think it just flows really
naturally so be a student of your
product first and foremost I think is
for anybody in B2B SAS like the absolute
Game Changer that'll take it to the next
level to help you accelerate much faster
sometimes I think when I look at like
marketing speak or people speaking on
LinkedIn about what's doing your first
90 days they are Relentless about
talking about the
audience but knowing your product and
knowing how it's different from your
competitors and where the pain points
are that you solve I think is equally
important nice points I like that be a
student of the product we have to yeah
snip that one out for a video clip so
and you know I wouldn't work for
wildspark if I didn't just say
like in your first 90 days like who you
are as a team member who you are as a
person you know is so important long
term for your success I think we talk
about that enough either right like the
trust that you build internally with
your team making their wins your wins
making their wins your priority like I
I'm so immeasurably grateful that that's
what we do at wildspark right like those
are the types of traits we try to
cultivate in every workplace in North
America and that's our goal our end goal
is to help every manager be a better
person and so I think just having a
posture of
humility is a GameChanger too you know I
know that we get we get these metrics
that are put up against us and you know
they want a million inbounds on day
three right but then also um I think
being willing to show that you're hungry
and you're learning and you just want to
sit and be a good active listener and
kind of understand what is what is it
like for the VP of operations or the CEO
or the director of sales right like
that's going to help you a lot as well
and so I wouldn't neglect just being a
great manager being a great leader being
a great human being to the team that
you're on now that really helps too that
helps you move fast got it some awesome
points so there's a lot there there's a
lot to think about so something that's
come to mind my mind straight away
mainly because I'm a terrible balancer
of time every time I look at the time or
the calendar I realize I'm running late
for a meeting so right understanding the
product you touched a little bit on
understanding so the product
understanding the product inside out
understand the problems it solved you
touched on you touched a bit on customer
calls um and we've also talked about
kind of speaking to your internal teams
be it V VPS sales leadership operations
Etc depending on size of your organ
who's within it how do you balance out
that time so I imagine it's quite a lot
to do and then also I imagine we've got
to actually do some kind of work
eventually to to get to that marketing
I'm not sure how how late that comes or
when you encourage people to then get
into I guess getting their hands dirty
and start doing that kind of tactical
stuff like how did you balance it
out that's a great
question um you know I think
I I implemented two time management
systems that I'm still like trying to be
a student of and get better at every day
but the one was just
um I would set aside very and this is
where I think sometimes only marketing
as a department deals with this but like
you're expected to know every Department
in and out know the product know your
audience all this stuff but then you're
also expected to like
create you know like create content and
it it's and there's this Bal this unique
balance in marketing of all the
relational and Leadership things that
you do especially for a startup right if
you're working for a larger company
probably not as much of an issue for you
right you're probably not doing
leadership related things as well as
tactical marketing that you're executing
on right but um it really is very unique
to marketing I think and so and startup
marketing and I would do a a a really
good job of blocking off days that were
just strategic days like this is just
meetings this is just research this this
is I'm managing this contractor I know
I'm gonna have to sit down with them for
an hour and hand over research and cast
a vision for my product and what I want
our marketing department to look like
and of those things right and so um I
wouldn't necessarily time block an
entire day into different activities I
would block off entire days for specific
activities so like for me Monday and
Wednesday Monday and Wednesday are my
strategic days that's when I have
checkins with sales that's when I have
we have pipeline meetings right on
Mondays at noon you know first of the
month right it's like so um and then
there were days that I had to be
relentless about covering up my calendar
and being like this is a tactical day
like I need to execute on this for the
website or this for social or you know
everything else you get this T Tech this
tech product set up or something like
that so um I had to be really good about
that and I don't think that ever changes
until you scale to the point where you
just you have somebody who's just
leading you know and you have titles of
you know CMO VP director manager
specialist all that structure right um
and then in addition to that working
with contractors I think me personally
like finding contractors that you trust
or agencies smaller agencies that you
really trust has also been a game
changer for the time management thing
too like if if you have a bucket
generally when you're in a B2B
startup and you're you're managing the
marketing department you get like a
bucket of money and it's like hey when
you're building your budget you get to
decide how you're going to allocate this
bucket right and so I've always looked
at those dollars like how can I buy
expertise in in buy velocity right and
so um there is a time and a place for
hiring people but I think in the startup
sense finding an individual that you can
really trust and who will do great work
for you and they'll do it quickly um is
a game Cher and a lot of times the
better move in those first few years
than
hiring so that helped a lot too in terms
of managing my time and then the last
thing I'll say is just like little tools
like eat the Frog Pomodoro time
management the Eisenhower decision
Matrix those are all things that we like
teach in Wild spark but like whatever it
is for you for me eating the frog is so
important doing the like most difficult
task at the beginning of the day when
I'm fresh simple things like that they
really do help but you just have to
figure out what's right for you what's
the Eisenhower movement I've heard of
eat at the Frog doing the most terrible
thing for the first thing in the day
what was the other one yeah so the
Eisenhower Matrix is like a grid that
talks that basically helps you balance
work that is most urgent and most
impactful something that uh my boss
always says at Wilds spark is that you
need to free up your capacity for the
most high impact high value work and
like the Eisen har Matrix is just a tool
we use like in wildpark um and that I
think is really well known at least in
the US like for people to just sort of
say here are all my tasks I'm going to
put them in this grid and then I'm gonna
do the things that are not only the most
urgent but are the most
impactful go to that and what did you
when you first came into your roles what
did you did you kind of make notes or
did you discuss it with a team when you
thought kind of the first I don't know
quarter 1 or quarter two however you set
your targets how did you define what was
going to be the most impactful let's say
Target or result you wanted to achieve
and then what were perhaps the key
things that you were going to do to
bring that to fruition to make that
happen yeah um so
I will say that both startups that I've
worked for had very different Revenue
models um one they've also had very
different like go to market models
whether it's completely product Le
growth and sort of like almost
relational Gorilla Marketing but then
also more like digital marketing
traditional sales process traditional
sales cycle all that right so um how did
I Define those priorities I think that
um there's always the tension between
brand building long-term
strategies and then immediate Pipeline
and revenue now you'll never get away
from that um no matter how much AI we
release or you know yeah but I think
that being able to break things up into
a percentage has been really helpful um
and that's something I've even seen
development teams do I think think like
being a also a student of how an agile
team runs in software development can
really help you as a marketer I'm
grateful that the last two jobs I've had
I've really been able to get a good look
at how software gets built and how it
gets built efficiently and then deployed
and iterated upon and um it's a
constantly moving wheel and that can
really help with you breaking down your
work almost into like a backlog you know
where 80% of this is strategic work 20%
of this is like immediate pipeline work
but um so yeah I don't know if that
makes sense but like I've just had a lot
of different uh I've had a lot of really
good collaboration across functional
teams to where a framework like the
agile framework is something that I've
been able to incorporate into how I
break down what kind of work we're doing
so try to keep it around in those first
two years try to keep it around like
you know 30% sales enablement 30% like
people who are in market right now
actively looking to buy you know warm
type of people that you want to get in
front of um and then 70% of it is
building future pipeline building demand
and that's kind of how I've always tried
to break it down um I've never really
had like the benefit of hey I have this
giant department and I'm able to
delegate just sales enablement to this
group of people and things like that um
but yeah I don't know if that makes
sense but that's basically how I've
tried to break it down and I really got
that inspiration from just watching how
software development teams like pull in
here's like fixing bugs and we're going
to do 10% of that like here's long-term
strategic work here's infrastructure
work that we're building out like in our
product architecture that type of stuff
so that was always really something that
helped me organize my work as a
marketer yeah yeah yeah some sound
advice I imagine that's being a marketer
probably one of the the toughest things
if you've got certain targets against
hitting mql numbers SQL numbers certain
pipeline metrics how do you balance
youve touched on it there you gave gave
a nice kind of percentage breakdown like
those shortterm wins like spending a
load of cash on Google ads yeah review
sites LinkedIn ads or wherever we can
capture someone in market now as opposed
to those longer term plays those other
channels that are more foundational more
organic more building up demand for the
longterm kind of position in our brand
as the choice so when those prospects
that don't need it now but eventually do
have the problems we solve we're the
only kind of one of the top vendors that
come to mind it's like that's all good
and well but that's not an easy sell to
leadership when you're perhaps a
marketing team of one or a marketing
team of Two And depending on what your
team's like sales may be hammering you
for leads or leadership may be hammering
you for leads so I imagine it's always
quite a difficult balance to
make yeah is and I honestly say if you
have the benefit of money you know if
you have the benefit of some budget I
like to put that but like and I've
learned this through making mistakes um
I didn't I didn't feel this way Straight
Out The Gate right but
like most like VC backed SAS companies
right they have the budget to build out
this full
funnel
whereas you
know at a startup up you have limited
funds and it's like hey where are we
going to put our money and a lot of
times if you think about the long-term
paid media play it doesn't work out to
your benefit and you'll probably lose
your job before some of the long-term
strategies for your paid media work off
right like building out this gigantic
LinkedIn funnel where you're just
focusing on the first eight months of of
getting people through you know problem
Weare brand aware all that stuff
you probably cannot do that if you're
working at a startup with very limited
fun limited funding but I think what you
can do is put your money into high
intent channels um and I think then
grind and use kind of your manual labor
to work on the larger long-term demand
gen stuff right and so like for us at
wildspark you know we'll put money into
PID search for very specific exact terms
that shows that somebody is within our
ICP and they're actively in
Market um or we'll put the money like we
parted with you breaking B2B and and we
said hey nobody has ever really gone
after our competitors there's zero
content out there comparing these Legacy
vendors that have been out there and
doing leadership development some of
them for a hundred years 50 years right
and so taking the money and Shifting the
mindset to hey I know like once I get
them in front of my sales team they're
going to be one over because I have like
the most wonderful people on my sales
team and I have a great product right um
a product that has disrupted this Legacy
leadership development Market where it's
super expensive it's super timec
consuming it's super boring wildpark is
none of those things right um and so
being able to take the money and go hey
I'm just going to put it into high
intent channels and get in front of
people who are actively looking for what
I have and I know if they get in front
of sales will at least be a strong
Contender for what they're looking for
so putting money into like something
like paid search putting money into G2
putting money into some of those
immediate SEO wins that you can get for
like competitor competitor comparison
Pages alternative searches those types
of things um I personally think that's
the lowest hanging fruit for a B2B
startup rather than focusing on doing an
entire
funnel that you pay at every step of the
process and then I mean if you have
great people I think a lot of that top
of the funnel brand Awareness stuff you
can achieve through Community Building
uh really likable branding um podcasting
you know different things that you do to
really provide value for people and you
kind of give it away for free and they
are immediately attached to your brand
because you're helping them in whatever
like you help people do SEO you help
people create websites for vanity or for
for purpose and for sales and inbound
leads and not vanity right so um you
know I think you use and you you use
your sort of Sweat Equity to build out
the community building top of the funnel
things that really um a lot of companies
have the luxury of paying for yeah yeah
yeah I'm I'm going to be biased and
agree with you naturally as as we do
some work together but I like the take
because there is so much on LinkedIn if
you're connected to any B2B Tech
marketers um or generally on on B2B Tech
podcasts so much about creating demand
building demand for folks that aren't in
market yet but like you said if you're a
startup marketing team that really
doesn't make sense to put all your time
and resources cash and energy into that
in the early days it it makes way more
sense to exhaust that bottom of the
funnel like you said there and
understand like who is quite literally
our offer right here right now whether
that is on Google organic search Google
PID search review sites or whatever
makes sense depending on your industry
where your target market go like exhaust
that I mean use the limited cash you
have to get those inbounds because those
folks are ready to have a s conversation
why would you mess around kind of doing
all this other stuff yeah by all means
if you've got if your team can do some
organic stuff on LinkedIn if you can
build out a podcast start educating your
buyers in that way for sure do it like
you say sweat Acy it makes sense just
just like we do with this show and you
folks do with your
podcast but yeah I mean because you've
got such limited time and such limited
cash like anything else to me just seems
mad unless you've got that extra
resource yeah and I think if you and I
learned this the hard way so I can share
some experience to keep you from making
that mistake but like if you take your
budget and you dump a ton of it into
that demand gen topof the funnel f
Market stuff straight out the gate
like it you're just not when you're in
B2B Mar startup marketing like you work
really hard and you you need to
eventually see some wins just for your
morale and for team morale and for your
position and the trust that you have
with the people on the team you know and
like when you're working for a startup
like everybody's really bought in to
like building this thing and getting it
to scale and and and making it right and
so
you know you want to feel like the
people around you are pulling their
weight you want to feel like the people
around you are as bot in as you are and
they're delivering right and so it's not
wrong or um you know uninformed or
unintelligent to want to put the money
into the
long-term top of the funnel stuff and
there are I think situations where it
makes sense but overall I think if you
put your money there you're going to
have like a tough you're going to have a
tough start like the first year or two
like you're not going to get a ton of
wins and you're G to constantly have
to explain yourself in front of senior
leadership and after a while beating the
drum of this will pay off long term this
will pay off long term like you know it
doesn't necessarily buy you what you
need in the short term um to then get
the budget that you need long term to
really do the things that you want to do
so yeah I would say it's best for you
and for your team to go after the low
hanging fruit bottom of the funnel stuff
people who are actively looking for what
you have right now I would focus your
first year or two just on that um
because that can be huge for
you yeah yeah sound of viice
um in terms of you touched on a little
bit there in terms of Industries and
having large scale
competitors what have what have you seen
success with when it comes to finding
gaps perhaps that the Giant the big boys
the massive brands in the space of
perhaps maybe sleeping on or any gaps or
ways to success that you've
seen yeah so there's a delicate there's
a dance here there's a delicate balance
of doing this but
not showing your cards right to your
competitors and things like that but um
you know I think once you start to win
over clients um and start to build a
client pool like any of them that you
can really talk to about your
competitors and like learn the things
things that frustrated them about the
competitor or any way that you can like
get your hand on your competitor's
product and see you know what Hoops they
make people jump through or processes
they create that really are just
completely unnecessary and it only
serves the company it doesn't serve the
users and they have a mentality of like
this is how it's always been done right
and so um being able to get all of that
information and then Having the courage
it takes courage it takes bravery to be
willing to do this um and it also takes
like a a level of self-awareness and
honesty too right like you can't just go
after your competitor if what you're
delivering on is or say you're
delivering on you're not actually
delivering on right so um but yeah I
think learning as much as you can about
them and their pain points from clients
who maybe came over from them or getting
the opportunity to look at their product
and see all the ways that yours just
gives you an extra Edge and then be
willing to like put yourself out on
those channels uh like those SEO
alternative articles or like platforms
where you do software reviews those are
huge but I think too just in
general that stuff should permeate all
of the places you talk about your
product like it should be you don't
necessarily have to name a competitor
but if you're going off with sales and
you guys are trying to land a big client
and you're making a presentation or a
pitch like marketing needs to be
involved to highlight that stuff right
and to really cast vision for how all of
these pain points that your competitors
have created for them you solve um so
you want to just make sure when you do
it though that you're ready like you
don't want to just start I think one
thing that happens in SEO it's like oh
well I just want to get something out
there so that it's indexed right because
SEO tends to be more of like a long-term
play right um make sure you get your
ducks in a row and make sure that you
have really good sound attractive
content before you go off because comp
your a lot of times your competitors
have the money to just give it Outsource
it to somebody or give it to somebody
who that's all they can focus on for the
week is just how they can blast and
destroy you right but yeah both
organizations that I've worked for going
after competitors was huge for us um and
but that we also we weren't one of these
emerging Technologies where we didn't
have like we were we were in sort of a
red ocean where there are shark swimming
around and it was somewhat saturated and
so um part of part of our positioning
was to be a disruptor and to be like hey
this this old process that they've made
you jump through it only serves them
with us we save you time we save you
money um and it you know it shouldn't
really be that way so I don't know I
don't know I don't know if I'm doing a
good job of of talking about tactically
what that looks like I think tactically
you know
it's you know how do you do that through
SEO how do you do that through your web
presence how do you talk about it in a
tasteful way like on your social and
make sure you incorporate it into a lot
of your sales process um I think is a
way to do it as well um I would say like
for us at wildspark this year within the
last six months we've really started to
gain traction with that stuff that we've
done um and we've got people in the
pipeline now that were looking at us
because they were they wanted an
alternative some Legacy
competitor no I think that's smart I
mean understanding those questions from
like recently onboarded customers
clients like why did you choose us
opposed to a comparator I mean let's be
honest when when folks are going to
Google or review site or any other way
they procure new technology vendors or
B2B vendors in general they're usually
comparing two or three options at least
so it's always like you said useful
Insight just to know like what what was
the Tipping Point like you got a lot of
choice out there why did you choose us
over those competitors and if you can
get that kind of insight I you solved
this they didn't or I preferred your
sales process or your marketing was more
tasteful or you made it more seamless or
your responses were quicker whatever
that was if there's regular patterns in
that feedback that you can then lever on
your messaging the website your articles
you know ads it's super useful if that
gives you a a bit of a differentiator in
the marketplace for sure yeah absolutely
and I think leaning
into when you people for the most part
when you interview a customer or you're
interviewing a new client or a prospect
right like you know there's a level of
uh politeness that they're going to have
they probably don't come on the call and
then just spend 20 minutes in a therapy
session blasting your competitor right
like most people have more tact and
self-awareness they're not going to do
that however I think
that one thing that has been really
helpful for me is like pushing a
prospect our client to get a little bit
more
granular about what created pain points
for them with a competitor right like
talk to me about literally the buttons
you would click or talk to me about the
process of uploading and adding new
seats to the platform or adding data
like and you would not believe the gold
mine of marketing talking points and
selling points you get from that so you
know I would say if you're interviewing
prospects and clients about a competitor
and really push them to get into the
weeds and granular like tell me every
little thing that you can remember that
just added extra clicks to your life or
extra processes or you knew you had to
set aside like two blocks of of or hours
of time every month to go through this
process and it just became part of your
workflow that now you can have back
right like get them to be really
specific with you about every little
thing from a competitor's product or
process or service and you would not
believe how much gold is within those
details that you can leverage in a way
that I mean everybody will say oh save
time save money right like everybody
kind of uses very vague talking points
on their website but man if you can get
really specific about what makes you
different you get like a table like you
know that it's a straight comparison of
little tiny things you know you might
not think at a high level that that
resonates with you but like it does
really resonate with your ICP um and
especially people who are in software
all day long to do their job like little
things like that really
matter that's awesome I mean that's
something that I rarely see or hear from
marketers I hear it a lot because I've
interviewed a lot of of sales folk on
this podcast sales leaders as well as
marketing leaders it's something that
sales people often talk about especially
during like sales Discovery calls like
whatever the prospect gives as the pain
point of the problem isn't usually
you've normally got to dig one or two
levels late um deeper like for example
we need a c CRM why is that well
everything's being slower when you say
everything's slow what do you mean well
it's taking us hours to enter all these
details into Google Sheets why is that
an issue well it's taking up five hours
where we could be prospecting each day
and why is that an issue where we're not
hitting our our dial Target we're not
hitting our appointment book Target
meaning we're down on Revenue ah okay so
what's that causing against q1 targets
when you dig into stuff like that then
like you say you get to the gold you get
to the real answers you get to the real
problems the bleeding neck issues which
are causing them expenses headcount
Revenue whatever and that's something I
don't see or hear a lot from marketers
so being able to do that is super
effective to then leverage for all
aspects of marketing messaging content
yeah you know it's true and software is
emotional this is
this is something like my husband is an
academic he uses educational software
and when he is in he uses certain
platforms for different universities
that he works for and like when when he
is in one it creates a lot of happiness
for him when he is in another it creates
a lot of anger and frustration because
it's tedious and the user experience is
like software is emotional I know that
like software is extremely quantifiable
in terms of the development process and
story points and velocity and all these
different things and like the ones and
zeros and like I get it but at the end
of the day like software makes people
feel things and you as a marketer don't
you're not too good to get granular with
them on that like find out what are the
little things that elicit certain
feelings and emotions in them and then
use that to cast a vision for what their
life could be if they came to your
service or product you know so so yeah
I always try to to hit on that as much
as I can like software makes you feel
things and that's probably the greatest
dial that a marketer who works for a B2B
SAS company can turn
up love it great advice Rachel we'll
have to get you on for a part two in a
future episode to dive into this in a
bit more depth as we run out of time now
but with that really appreciate you
coming on the show thanks for sharing
your your wisdom Hands-On advice and we
can really feel that you you've been in
the trenches you've actually done the
work yourself just want to thank you for
coming on sharing that so with that
please do tell us more about how
everyone tuning in can connect with
yourself bit more about world spark and
anything you'd like to share Their
audience yeah so um you can find me on
LinkedIn Rachel Meritt um but really at
the end of the day I'm just you cut me
open I bleed wildpark red so if you're
here I'd love for you to go give
wildspark a follow on LinkedIn um we
just try to give away a ton of value to
help you be a better human a better
leader and anything you need to be great
from The Boardroom to the family room
would love for you to give us a follow
on there we'll make you laugh um we'll
make you smile and uh we'll also help
just share some tidbits that hopefully
uh improve your life so you can look me
up on LinkedIn Rachel Merritt but more
importantly I'd love for you to go
follow wildpark and check out wildspark
decom if you're in the market for
something um that helps you develop the
soft skills of your people in a fun and
enjoyable engaging way um wildspark is
that product so thank you for having me
I've always been a big fan of everything
that create as a as a content creator
that's how I initially came to be
engaged with with you and your firm um
and how you do work for us so keep
grinding because you're you're really
helping people I appreciate it I
appreciate it thanks very much for
sharing your wisdom we're going to put
all of those links below as always if
you want to join thousands of Legends
enjoying the daily emails or past
podcast episodes or even to apply to
work with our team head over to breaking
bb.com and a big thank you for you the
audience for tuning in we should catch
you on the next one for more no b s B2B
marketing tips to grow your business
grow your Revenue see you soon
[Music]